---
title: 外刊精读
Date: Mon Dec 15 2025 22:29:29 GMT+0800
tags:
  - En
cover: /en0.webp
description: listening~
---
# 外刊精读

>[!Note]
>留个链接先，免得又找不到了
>[外刊精读](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1eiSgBGEdp?spm_id_from=333.788.videopod.sections&vd_source=2430e934c270f1656bc475b83b6e6701)
>
>其实也不知道质量怎么样，就是在Bilibili上随便搜的一个。但其实就是这种简单的文章我也听不下来，那就抱着对英语一无所知的心态，重新出发吧！

## One Job is Enough - The rise of 'polyworking'

### TEXT

As workers face frozen salaries, / `inflation`, / and fear of `layoffs`. / Some have decided to `branch out` from their traditional careers. /
They are `taking on` second, third / and sometimes fourth jobs / to `bring in` additional income, / and provide `a backup plan` / should they find themselves out of work. / This is something that's been called / 'polyworking'.

Some are drawn to `side jobs` because of instability in their workplace, / or worries that they may lose their income. / Others `are reluctant to` trust one employer / to provide steady job that `lasts` / and are supplementing their main roles with `gig work` on food delivery / or driving apps.

"We have seen `stagnant` saleries, we've seen inflation, we've seen cost of living overall increasing, even beyond our inflation meassures." said Alexandrea Ravenelle from University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

"So people are looking for ways to supplement, and to build themselves a little bit of `a safety net`." Some are creating "portfolio careers" meaning they wrok for a variety jobs, each building different skills for their portfolios.

While there are advantages to `poly-working`, those who've done it warn that it probably won't help with your work-life balance.

"You have to love it", said Elaine Chen from Tufts University. "Usually it is something that person is really passionate about." But for others, it is not about passion at all, it's a financial necessity - one income is not enough to pay the bills, or repay loans.

And poly-working make other risks, when people are looking for side jobs, they should be cautious if an opportunity found online seems too good to be true.

Perhaps poly-working is to be admired - it's something that a lot of younger workers are doing to give themselves more options. But, Nadya Williams, who writes for the Institute for Family Studies, doesn't agree. In a blog post, she said:"Having to take on a second job - and working more than 40 hours a week just to pay the bills - is not a positive for our society".

### NOTE

1. inflation  /_ɪnˈfleɪʃ(ə)n_/ 通货膨胀
2. layoff  /_ˈleɪɒf_/ 下岗，解雇，休息
3. branch out 拓展业务
4. take on 承担
5. bring in 赚得（收入）
6. backup plan 后背方案
7. side job 副业
8. be reluctant to 不情愿
9.  last v. 持续
10. gig work 零工，gig还有演唱会的意思
11. stagnant 停滞的
12. a safety net 安全网
13. portfolio 作品集
14. poly-working 多重工作

## When Humanities Meet Python: China's Liberal Arts Go Digital

### TEXT

Face with a competitive job market and shrinking `humanities` programs, Chinese `liberal arts` graduates are increasingly learning coding and data skills to enhance `employability`.

A record 12.22 million students graduated in 2025, with liberal students `trailing` `STEM peers` in both `hiring rates` and salaries. Li Jialu, an advertising major, began teaching himself to code, discovering that programming skills improved his marketing performance and structured thinkings, `giving him a competitive edge` and `bridging the gap` between arts and technology.

Platforms like Xiaohongshu reflects this trend, with "`swithing to` coding" posts, generating millions of views and discussions. Online courses in coding, AI, and data analysis have surged allowing students to self-learn despite concerns about feedback and measurable progress. Some, like Chang he, persue second degree in data scicence to `break into` the tech industry, using AI tools to `navigate` unfamiliar coding challenges. 

Employers increasingly value `technical literacy` alongside traditional `humanities skills`. Roles such as product management reward `hybrid compentencies`, where data analysis and human insigt `converge`.

HR managers note that while STEM graduates dominate technical roles, liberal arts students with coding abilities can `capitalize on` their `comunication and empathy skills` to add value, especially in areas like user experience and people analytics.

Universities are responding under the "New Liberal Arts" `initiative`, integrating Python and `data mining` into humanities curricula, often through project-based learning.

Advisors stress that students should balance technical training with `soft skills`, including teamwork, communication, and problem-solving, ensuring that graduates are `versatile` in the AI-driven economy.

In sum humanities students are reshaping their education, embracing technology without abandoning their `foundational strenths`. By combining coding with empathy and creative thinking, they `position themselves as` adaptable professionals ready for an increasingly `data-centric` world.

### NOTE

1. humanities 人文科学
2. liberal arts 文科
3. employability 就业能力
4. trailing 落后于
5. STEM peers 理工科学生
6. hiring rates 就业率
7. structured thinkings 结构化思维
8. giving him a competitive edge 给予某人竞争优势
9. bridging the gap 减少差距
10. swithing to 转向
11. break into 闯入，成功进入
12. navigate 应对
13. technical literacy 文学素养
14. humanities skills 人文社科能力
15. hybrid compentencies 复合能力
16. converge 交汇
17. capitalize on 利用
18. comunication and empathy skills 沟通和共情能力
19. initiative 倡议
20. data mining 数据挖掘
21. soft skills 软实力
22. versatile 多才多艺的
23. foundational strenths 固有优势
24. position themselves as 将自身定义为
25. data-centric 以数据为中心的

## The Attention Crisis: How To Take Back Control Of Your Brain

### TEXT

In today's `hyperconnected` world, out attentions is `relentlessly` fragmented by emails, notifications, and endless information streams, creating a state psychologists called "continuous partial attention".

Despite spending hours on tasks, many find themselves unproductive, `overwhelmed` and `mentally exhausted`. The problem is not a lack of `willpower` but failure to intentionally direct attention, which, like a muscle, can be trained to improve focus and achieve meaningful goals.

Dr. Emily Balcetis, a social psychologist at NYU, emphasizes that attention shapes reality: we often believe that merely allocating time to a task `equates to` focus, yet mental energy is `scattered` across multiple `priorities`.

Attention involves what we observe, what we think about and how are brains integrate signals - forming `distinct` "attention muscles" that can be strengthened.

The first is `visual focus`, the ability to narrow or widen our attention `spotlight`, which makes distant goals appear closer and more `attainable`. 

The second is `temporal connection`, linking present actions to future outcomes, which motivates `delayed gratification`.

Third is `obstacle-processing`, the capacity to `anticipate challenges` while maintaining motivation, preventing purely positive visualization from `demotivating` us.

Finally, `cognitive flexibility` allows `switching between` different type of attention, enhancing problem-solving and creativity.

By `progressively` training this components - through focused tasks, visualizations, planning for obstacles and `cross-training` cognitive skills - individuals can `regain control over` their scattered attention. Those who master this `invisible skill` often transform their productivity and goal achievement, demonstrating that focus is not innate but a trainable system.

`In an era of` `perpetual` distraction, understanding attention as a `malleable` and direct resource is critical: the more intentionally we strengthen it, the more we translate effort into meaningful `accomplishments`.

### NOTE

1. hyperconnected 高度互联的
2. relentlessly 持续地
3. overwhelmed 不堪重负的
4. mentally exhausted 精神疲惫
5. willpower 意志力
6. equates to 等同于
7. scattered 使散开
8. priorities 优先
9. distinct 独特的
10. visual focus 视觉焦点
11. spotlight 聚光灯 
12. attainable 可实现的
13. temporal connection 时间联结
14. delayed gratification 延迟满足
15. obstacle-processing 障碍处理
16. anticipate challenges 预判挑战
17. demotivating 使失去动力
18. cognitive flexibility 认知灵活性
19. switching between 在……之间切换
20. progressively 渐进的
21. cross-training 交叉训练
22. regain control over 重新获得对……的控制
23. invisible skill 无形的技能
24. In an era of 在……时代
25. perpetual 永远的
26. malleable 可塑的
27. accomplishments 成就

## When Ice Cream Comes With A Novel: Mixue's Genius Idea

### TEXT

Chinese ice cream bran Mixue has recently `gone viral` for transforming its every day receipts into pages of serialized novel - blending marketing, story telling and fan participation in an unexpected clever way.

Now each of ice-cream purchase comes with the fragmented fiction forming part of twenty chapter story titled Xue Wang sales coffee in the ancient times where Mixue's snow-king `mascot` and his sidekick little lemon run the cafe in a daynastic setting.

The campping explode in the social medial with hush tags in Mixue reciepts hair a serialised novel attracts tens of millons of views in vibe, posts asking :"who has the next chapter", encourage to share and trade gra sheets, piecing the story together collaberatively.



### NOTE

1. gone viral
2. 

<!-- 
  感觉这篇不是很喜欢，也许是生词有点多，或是内容不太习惯，听不动，先放下吧
  后面找素材尽量向教育、科技、社会、政府、媒体、国际、犯罪、文化、旅游、环境、健康，工作这些主题靠拢
  方便积累雅思作文素材
 -->
